



Scrum and Kanban are the two most popular Agile methodologies in use today. 

And because they are Agile, they both believe in responding to change rathing than following a plan.

They both believe in working software over comprehensive documentation.

And they both believe the continuous delivery of working software is the highest priority for their development teams.

But there is one really big difference between Kanban and Scrum, and it all revolves around how iterative development is done.

In Scrum, you plan sprints.

The Product Owner, Scrum Master and Agile developers look at the backlog of features to be developed, and figure out how many can be completed in a two or three week sprint.

Then the sprint begins, features get developed, and once the two or three weeks sprint is done, the progress is reviewed, and a retrospective is performed.

Planning, sprints, reviews and retrospectives are all key elements of the scrum methodology.

Now here's the big difference between Kanban and Scrum. Kanban doesn't do sprints. Which means there is no sprint planning and there are no sprint reviews and retrospectives. That's a huge difference.

Instead, Kanban developers look at the product backlog and pick a feature to work on.

That feature then moves from the backlog's to-do list into the list of work in progress, which is often abbreviated WiP and called 'whip'. 

Limiting the amount of work in progress at any moment in time is a top priority of Kanban practitioners.

When a feature is done, it is moved to the Done list and the developer then picks another feature to work on.

This is why Kanban is often referred to as a 'continuous development' and a 'just-in-time' development methodology. 

Feature development is not boxed into time-limted sprint. Feature development is continuous and onging. And the most critical features are developed first, providing what's needed 'just-in-time' for the client.

To capture the work being done, the work that's been completed and the work that needs to be done, Kanban uses something called a Kanban board. It makes the process very visual. 

It works so well, most scrum teams use some form of a Kanban board as well.

So that's the big difference between Scrum and Kanban. Scrum is a sprint based Agile methodology while Kanban advocates continuous development.

There are other, more subtle differences as well. To learn more, check out the article I wrote about Scrum versus Kanban over on The Server Side.

Thanks for watching. And don't forget. Be Scrumtuous!




















Scrum and Kan