85 Clover Ridge Dr E
Buffalo, NY
14209
(289) 314-5715
mail@cameronmckenzie.com
Cameron McKenzie
Professional  
Experience
August. 2008 –  Present        	McKenzie Consulting                                             Buffalo, NY
Java EE Architect specializing in WebSphere Portal Technology 
?   specialized in migrating version 6.x and 6.1.x versions of WebSphere Portal to versions 7 an 8, 
including the integration of Lotus Connections into WebSphere Portal 7
?  extensive work leading teams developing JSR-286 portal applications, including the migration 
of older JSR-168 applications to the newer standard
? lead a variety of WebSphere Portal consolidation projects, bringing various decentralized 
systems together into a single portal installation
? performed requirements gathering, developed statements of work (SOWs) and developed 
implementation paths and plans
?   provided architectural visioning for a number of fortune 500 companies looking to implement 
WebSphere Portal based enterprise solutions
May. 2006 –  2008                   Master Data Management (MDM)              Las Vegas, Nevada
WebSphere Administrator and Developer – Entity Analytics and AML Technologies
? architected, developed and facilitated the implementation of anti-fraud and anti-money 
laundering solutions for various fortune 500 companies and government agencies
?  worked to develop and support RESTful APIs for software product, and assist customers in 
building enterprise Java applications (Java EE) that leveraged these interfaces
?  managed off-shore software delivery teams, ensuring code quality and timely product delivery
August. 2000 –  May 2006       Perficient Inc.                                                       Austin, Texas
Senior Java Developer and Team Lead
?  implemented WebSphere Portal solutions that embraced the philosophies of high availability, 
simple maintainability, and infinite scalability
?  mentored both developers and administrators on how to effectively develop and deploy Java 2 
Enterprise Edition (J2EE) applications to all versions of the WebSphere Application Server
? provided direction and support, facilitating the development and deployment of J2EE 
applications that took advantage of a variety of proprietary and open source technologies
? uses a variety of scripting languages to automate test, QA, staging and production environments
Oct.  1998 –  August 2000      	ITI, Information Technology Institute                    Chicago, IL
Technical Facilitation Specialist  for the Enterprise
? the lead technical reference for ITI's Java and DB2 modules, the Technical Facilitation 
Specialist's role is to provide guidance and subsequently mentor ITI facilitators as they develop 
object design, Java programming and database administration skills
January - October 1998      	ITI, Information Technology Institute                    Chicago, IL
Classroom Facilitator
??provided classroom facilitation for the Object Oriented Programming with VisualAge module, 
employing a variety of collaborative and example-based facilitation strategies 


Education


Cameron McKenzie

1995-1997		              Durham College		                                               Oshawa, Durham
Business Administration Diploma
85 Clover Ridge Dr E
Buffalo, NY
14209
(289) 314-5715
mail@cameronmckenzie.com
Department of Technology:  Internet & Multimedia Design, Post Secondary Certificate

Professional 
Designations

IBM Certified Associate Developer – Rational  Application Developer for WebSphere 6 
IBM Certified Application Developer – Rational  Application Developer for WebSphere 6
IBM Certified Solution Developer – IBM WebSphere Portal 
IBM Certified System Administrator – IBM WebSphere Portal 
IBM Certified System Administrator – IBM WebSphere Application Server 
 
Oracle Certified Associate  - Java 7 Programmer (OCAJP) 
Sun Certified Java Associate (SCJA)  
Sun Certified Enterprise Architect, Java EE 5 (SCEA)

Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer  - Windows NT (MCSE)
Microsoft Certified Professional + Internet  - Windows NT (MCP+I)
Microsoft Certified Professional – Windows NT (MCP)
? achieved Microsoft's premiere networking designation in late 1998
? scored above 900 on all NT operating system exams, with a perfect 1000 on NT Server

Books and 
Publications
Hibernate Made Easy: Simplified Java Persistence with Hibernate and JPA Annotations
?? explains Hibernate and JPA in simple and easy to understand terms.
JavaServer Faces Made Easy – Simplified Web Development with JSF
?? explains Hibernate and JPA in simple and easy to understand terms.
What is WebSphere? Demystifying IBM's Middle Tier Technology
?? this best-selling book on WebSphere explores the technology that drives IBM's middle tier, 
explaining the technology in a humorous and entertaining manner. Available on amazon.com.
JSR-168 Portlet Development: Learning How to Develop Effective Portlet Applications
?? the top selling book on the topic of JSR-168 portlet development, this book will soon be replaced by 
an update covering the JSR-286 (not 268) specification.
Sun Certified Java Programmer Certification Study Guide  
Sun Certified Java Programmer: The Exam Questions
?  currently the only books available for learning the SCJA objectives, these best selling 
books have topped the amazon.com best-sellers chart for over a year.




85 Clover Ridge Dr E
Buffalo, NY
14209
(289) 314-5715
mail@cameronmckenzie.com
Cameron McKenzie


The following is a small sampling of the many technical engagements in which I have participated over the past 
several years.

Bunge International; White Plains, NY
?    Worked with corporate headquarters to develop a technical vision for their corporate Internet
?    Architected a WebSphere portal vision, based heavily upon Web Services for Remote Portlets (WSRP), to tie 
together the various business units of this 60 billion dollar a year company

The GAP: Gap, Old Navy, Banana Republic and Gap Kids; San Francisco, CA
?    Provided consulting services to help migrate an existing website into a WebSphere portal environment
?    Assisted with architecture decisions surrounding the development of virtual portals to support both internal and 
externally facing portal sites

AAA Insurance; St.Louis, MO
?    Mentored a group of ten developers with respect to proper J2EE development using WebSphere Studio 
?    Provided design guidelines and best practices for developing applications using the Struts framework
?    Helped develop internationalized applications using Struts and JSTL

Sears Canada; Toronto, ON
?    Mentored a group of WebSphere developers in best practices when using WebSphere Portal Server
?    Communicated and demonstrated the various technologies available when architecting a WebSphere solution

Unigroup Inc; St. Louis, MO
?    Provided guidance to a group of five developers working on J2EE applications
?    Helped develop a Struts and Tiles based application 

Boeing Aircraft; St. Louis, MO
?    Worked with a group of five developers, assisting them in the development of a parts management application 
for the airline industry.
?    Helped develop scripts to automate the deployment of applications from source code management tools

State Farm Insurance; Bloomington, IL
?    Worked with a group of five WebSphere administrators and senior developers
?    Helped configure the WebSphere Application Server for J2EE application deployment
?    Helped troubleshoot session problems between Microsoft's IIS and the WebSphere Application Server

3M; St. Paul, MN
?    Mentored and facilitated the development of an employee portal
?    Helped develop portlets that accessed collaborative components within a single sign-on environment

General Electric; St. Louis, MO
?    Developed and deployed Cocoon based applications using WebSphere Studio Application Developer, Version 5
?    Provided a feature analysis comparing Struts and Cocoon, two popular open source frameworks
?    Ported inventory management applications, originally created using HP Sapphire, to IBM's WebSphere 
Application Server

Legal and General Insurance; London, England. Cardiff, Wales
?    Mentored developers in the creation of J2EE solutions, which supported an integrated architecture that used a 
variety of different security and session management mechanisms


85 Clover Ridge Dr E
Buffalo, NY
14209
(289) 314-5715
mail@cameronmckenzie.com
Cameron McKenzie


While the majority of my time is spent developing and architecting J2EE solutions, I relish the opportunity to 
share my knowledge and passion for technology with others. The following is a partial listing of the courses I have 
been certified to deliver for IBM Learning Services (ILS).

Developing Applications with Java Persistence API
? This course teaches how to build Java applications that use the Java Persistence API (JPA) with IBM Rational 
Application Developer V7.5

Developing Web Services using WebSphere Studio Application Developer
?  This course explores the built in support WebSphere Studio provides for creating, testing and publishing Web Services  
?  Topics include: using Apache SOAP, UDDI, EJBs and WSDL

IBM WebSphere Application Server V7 Problem Determination
? Enterprise application deployment, workload management, implementing security and monitoring performance are just some 
of the topics delivered in this challenging five-day course
? While exercises and labs are all performed on Windows machines, attention is paid to commands and differences between 
Windows and AIX implementations of the Application Server

Java EE 5 Development for WebSphere Application Server V7
? This course teaches how to develop and test Enterprise JavaBeans (EJBs), servlets and other components with the latest 
Java EE 5 specifications such as EJB 3.0, Servlet 2.5, JavaServer Pages (JSP) 2.1, Java Standard Tag Library (JSTL) 1.2 
and JavaServer Faces 1.2.

Servlet and JSP Development using Rational Application Developer
?  Along with traditional Servlet and JSP development, students are introduced to many advanced topics including custom 
tags, servlet filtering and various J2EE design patterns
?  Was given the privilege to provide the first European delivery of this course in Dublin, in September of 2001

Getting Started with SOA
?  This course offers an introduction to service-oriented architecture (SOA), and describes the essential concepts of SOA that 
affect a broad technical audience.

Ajax and Web 2.0 Application Development
?  This course teaches software developers how to build the next generation of rich, interactive Web applications using 
Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (Ajax)


 
 
 
