Who is the Scrum Product Owner?


The Scrum Guide describes three roles, or 'accountabilities": the developer, the Scrum Master and the Product owner.

We all know who developers are. They're the workers who build the product.

And we all know the Scrum Master is the person who coaches and guides the Scrum Team.

But what about the Product Owner? Who should be the Product Owner on a Scrum Team?

Many organizations find one of the following to fill the role of Product Owner:

1. A Project Manager
2. The head of product development
3. A lead business analyst
4. A team lead
5. A senior UI designer

But do the skills these people have map properly to the skills of the Product Owner?

I recently got a chance to chat with David West, the CEO of Scrum.org, and I asked him who should be the Product Owner on a Scrum team, and here's what he had to say:
...


The Product Owner is a key member of the Scrum Team, with responsibilities that are critical to the success of your product. 

Make sure you pick the right person for the job.









A Product Owner orders the work for a complex problem into a Product Backlog.

The Product Owner is accountable for maximizing the value of the product resulting from the work of the Scrum Team.


The Product Owner is also accountable for effective Product Backlog management, which includes:
● Developing and explicitly communicating the Product Goal;
● Creating and clearly communicating Product Backlog items;
● Ordering Product Backlog items; and,
● Ensuring that the Product Backlog is transparent, visible and understood.


The Product Owner may do the above work or may delegate the responsibility to others. Regardless, the Product Owner remains accountable.

For Product Owners to succeed, the entire organization must respect their decisions. These decisions are visible in the content and ordering of the Product Backlog, and through the inspectable Increment at the Sprint Review.

The Product Owner is one person, not a committee. The Product Owner may represent the needs of many stakeholders in the Product Backlog. Those wanting to change the Product Backlog can do so by trying to convince the Product Owner.


The Scrum Master serves the Product Owner in several ways, including:
7
● Helping find techniques for effective Product Goal definition and Product Backlog management;
● Helping the Scrum Team understand the need for clear and concise Product Backlog items;
● Helping establish empirical product planning for a complex environment; and,
● Facilitating stakeholder collaboration as requested or needed.

During the Sprint:
● No changes are made that would endanger the Sprint Goal;
● Quality does not decrease;
● The Product Backlog is refined as needed; and,
● Scope may be clarified and renegotiated with the Product Owner as more is learned.


The Product Owner ensures that attendees are prepared to discuss the most important Product Backlog items and how they map to the Product Goal.
























